# lab-0 preparation

These are the steps to get the the labs ready as an instructor.

## Student Workspaces

Why a VM on the cloud as the workspace?

It allows users to have any local platform (Windows, Mac, Linux) and not need anything more than internet access, a modern OS and web browser.

The hope is this provides a quick, level playing field for all students in attendance.

### Setup Student VPC Network

Find the VPC Networks section, click on **Create VPC Network**.

The required fields are the name of the network, name of the subnet, which region to use and an IP address range.

Here's a sensible default if you'd like:

  * student-network1
  * student-subnet1
  * us-west1
  * `192.168.100.0/24`

The `192.168.x.x` recommendation is to avoid networks generated by terraform that use 10.x.x.x ranges.

### Open SSH on the `student-network-1`

Go to VPC networks > **Firewall rules**

Create a firewall rule.

  * name: **allow-ssh**
  * network: **student-network1**
  * targets: **All instances in the network**
  * source IP ranges: **0.0.0.0/0**
  * specified protocols and ports: **tcp:22**

### Workspace VM

Each student's linux user is created by Google and their user name when they use the SSH command.

You can create one large student workplace machine for all students to use.  Or you could create a "red team" vs "blue team".  The idea is that it's not confusing for the students to connect.

Under Compute Engine, **Create an Instance**.

  * name: student-workspace
  * zone: near your location
  * machine type: **n1-highmem-64**
  * boot disk: Ubuntu 14.04 LTS
  * identity and API access: **Allow full access to all Cloud APIs**

Under the Management, disks, networking, SSH keys, switch to the **Networking** tab.

Change the Network interface tab to the **student-network-1**.

**Create** the VM.
